Add docs for creating new page models in Wagtail (Fixes #14797) (#14852)
mozilla/bedrock: docs/cms.rst

Surfaces will be authored via a closed 'Editing' deployment and when those changes
are published they will become visible on the main www.mozilla.org 'Web' deployment.

If you are new to Wagtail, it is recommended that you read the official docs
and/or complete an online course to get a better understanding of how Wagtail works.

Useful resources:

- `Wagtail Editor Guide`_.
- `Wagtail Docs`_.
- `The Ultimate Wagtail Developers Course`_.

Accessing the CMS

> ==================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=================
```

   supplied to you. (make sure your ``.env`` file is based on a recent copy of
   ``.env-dist`` as several new variables exist).
#. In your ``.env`` file set the following variables:

   - ``USE_SSO_AUTH=True``
   - ``WAGTAIL_ENABLE_ADMIN=TRUE``
   - ``WAGTAIL_ADMIN_EMAIL=YOUR_MOZILLA_LDAP_EMAIL@mozilla.com``

#. Run ``make preflight`` to update bedrock with the latest DB version. As part of
   this step, the make file will also create a local admin user for you, using the
   Mozilla LDAP email address you added in the previous step.
#. Start bedrock running via ``npm start`` (for local dev) or ``make build run``
   (for Docker).
#. Go to ``http://localhost:8000/cms-admin/`` and you should see a button to login
   with SSO. Click it and you should go through the OAuth flow and end up in the
   Wagtail admin.

Non-SSO authentication
----------------------

#. In your ``.env`` file set ``USE_SSO_AUTH=False``, and ``WAGTAIL_ENABLE_ADMIN=TRUE``.
#. Run ``make preflight`` to update bedrock with the latest DB version.
#. Create a local admin user with ``./manage.py createsuperuser``, setting both the
   username, email and password to whatever you choose (note: these details will only

>    be stored locally on your device).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   be stored locally on your device).
   #. Alternatively, if you define ``WAGTAIL_ADMIN_EMAIL=YOUR_MOZILLA_LDAP_EMAIL@mozilla.com`` and ``WAGTAIL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=somepassword`` in your ``.env.`` file, ``make preflight`` will automatically create a non-SSO superuser for you
```

#. Start bedrock running via ``npm start`` (for local dev) or ``make build run``
   (for Docker).
#. Go to ``http://localhost:8000/cms-admin/`` and you should see a form for logging in
   with a username and password. Use the details you created in the previous step.

Adding new content surfaces
===========================

This is an introduction to creating new content surfaces in the CMS. It is not a
comprehensive guide, but rather a starting point to get you up and running with the
basics.

> The page types that you see in the Wagtail admin are defined as regular models in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The page types that you see in the CMS admin are defined as regular models in
```

Django. As such, you can define new page types in the same way you would define any
other Django model, using Wagtail's field types and panels to define the data that
can be entered into the page.

When it comes to structuring CMS page models, there are some general guidelines to
try and follow:

- Models and templates should be defined in the same Django app that corresponds

>   to where the URL exists in bedrock’s AI hierarchy, similar to what we do for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to where the URL exists in Bedrock’s information architecture (IA) hierarchy, similar to what we do for
```

  regular Jinja templates already. For example, a Mozilla themed page should be
  defined in ``/bedrock/mozorg/models.py``, and a Firefox themed page model should
  be in ``/bedrock/firefox/models.py``.

> - Global models/blocks that are shared across many pages throughout the site should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Global ``Page`` models and ``StreamField`` blocks that are shared across many pages throughout the site should
```

  be defined in ``/bedrock/cms/``.

Structuring code in this way should hopefully help to keep things organized and
migrations in a manageable state.

Creating a new page model
-------------------------

Let’s start by creating a new Wagtail page model called ``TestPage``
in ``bedrock/mozorg/models.py``.

.. code-block:: python

    from django.db import models

    from wagtail.admin.panels import FieldPanel
    from wagtail.fields import RichTextField

    from bedrock.cms.models.base import AbstractBedrockCMSPage

    class TestPage(AbstractBedrockCMSPage):
        heading = models.CharField(max_length=255, blank=True)
        body = RichTextField(
            blank=True,

>             features=settings.WAGTAIL_RICHTEXT_FEATURES_FULL,

Reviewer: Aside: I'm wondering about renaming `WAGTAIL_RICHTEXT_*` to `CMS_RICHTEXT_*` so that they don't look like they're core Wagtail settings. What do you think?

        )

        content_panels = AbstractBedrockCMSPage.content_panels + [
            FieldPanel("heading"),
            FieldPanel("body"),
        ]

        template = "mozorg/test_page.html"

Some key things to note here:

- ``TestPage`` is a subclass of ``AbstractBedrockCMSPage``, which is a common base
  class for all Wagtail pages in bedrock. Inheriting from ``AbstractBedrockCMSPage``
  allows CMS pages to use features that exist outside of Wagtail, such as rendering
  Fluent strings and other L10n methods.
- The ``TestPage`` model defines two database field called ``heading`` and ``body``.
  The ``heading`` field is a ``CharField`` (the most simple text entry field type),
  and ``body`` is a ``RichTextField``. The HTML tags and elements that a content
  editor can enter into a rich text field are defined in

>   ``settings.WAGTAIL_RICHTEXT_FEATURES_FULL``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``settings.WAGTAIL_RICHTEXT_FEATURES_FULL``.
- There is also a ``title`` field on the page model, which from ``AbstractBedrockCMSPage`` (which in turn comes from ``wagtail.models.Page``). This doesn't make ``heading`` redundant, but it's worth knowing where ``title`` comes from.
```

> - Both fields are added to the CSM admin panel by adding each as a ``FieldPanel`` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both fields are added to the CMS admin panel by adding each as a ``FieldPanel`` to
```

  ``content_panels``. If you forget to do this, that's usually why you don't see the
  field in the CMS admin.
- Finally, the template used to render the page type can be found at

>   ``mozorg/test_page.html``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``mozorg/test_page.html``.
  If you don't set a custom template name, Wagtail will infer it from the model's name: ``<app_label>/<model_name (in snake case)>.html``
```

> Running migrations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Django model migrations
```

> ------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-----------------------
```

> Once you have your model defined, it’s then time to run migrations to take that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have your model defined, it’s then time to run create and run migrations to
```

> model and create a database table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set up a database table for it:
```

.. code-block:: shell

    ./manage.py makemigrations

You can then run migrations using:

.. code-block:: shell

    ./manage.py migrate

Many times when you make changes to a model, it will also mean that the structure of
the database table has changed. So as a general rule it’s good to form a habit of
running the above steps after making changes to your model. Each migration you make
will add a new migration file to the ``/migrations`` directory. When doing local
development for a new page you might find yourself doing this several times, so to help

> reduce the number of migration files you create you can also squash / merge them.

Reviewer: Related: we can/will automate this to help avoid footguns https://github.com/mozilla/bedrock/issues/14859

> INSERT LINK TO ARTICLE ON SQUASHING / MERGING?

Reviewer: We could/should link to the official migrations docs - https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/migrations/ and then also the specific `squashmigrations` docs https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/migrations/#migration-squashing, which does a pretty good

However, if you think that second link isn't enough, we can write very bedrock-specific example.

Rendering data in templates
---------------------------

This is a good time to test out your page model by adding data to it to see how it
renders in your template.

The data can be rendered in ``mozorg/test_page.html`` as follows:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% extends "base-protocol-mozilla.html" %}

    {% block page_title %}{{ page.title }}{% endblock %}

    {% block content %}
        <header>
        <h1>{{ page.heading }}</h1>
        <div class="w-rich-text">
            {{ page.body|richtext }}
        </div>
        </header>

>     {% endblock %}

Author: Note to self: I need to test this actually works before merging

Reviewer: Looks like it'll be fine to me

Note the ``|richtext`` filter applied to the ``page.body`` field. This is a

> Wagtail/Django filter that will render the rich text field as HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wagtail-provided Jinja2 filter that will render the rich text field as HTML.
```

Previewing pages in the CMS admin
---------------------------------

> Next, restart your local server and log in to the CMS admin. You should now see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, restart your local server and log in to the CMS admin. 
Browse to a page and use the ``+`` icon or similar to add a new "child page".
You should now see
```
